
Journal of Pharmaceutical Negative Results ¦ Volume 13 ¦ Special Issue 6 ¦ 2022 94 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

ECONOMIC GROWTH AND FINANCIAL SYSTEM: A STUDY 
ON THAT RELATIONSHIP IN VIETNAM  

Vu Ngoc Luan1, Le Van Vien2, Nguyen Danh Nam3 

1Thuyloi University, Hanoi, Vietnam. 
2Hanoi University of Natural Resources and Environment, Hanoi, Vietnam.  

3East Asia University of Technology, Hanoi, Vietnam.  

Email: luanvn@tlu.edu.vn 

DOI: 10.47750/pnr.2022.13.S06.012 

 

  

 

The financial system plays an important role in economic growth. However, the financial system is also an area affected by the evolution of 

growth. After nearly 30 years of renovation, Vietnam's economy has achieved remarkable achievements with an average growth rate of 

6.5%, contributing to the rapid improvement of all aspects of social life. However, economic growth also puts pressure on the financial 

system to weaken, leading to risks of adverse fluctuations that negatively affect future growth goals if there are no appropriate solutions to 

ensure continued growth. realize the growth target, and at the same time strengthen the safety of the Vietnamese financial system.  

 

Keywords: Economic growth, financial system, budget deficit. 

 

1. INTRODUCTION  

1. Financial system 

Along with the development of the economy, the financial system is increasingly diversified and complex, but the most basic 

functions of the financial system are: (1) Creating a channel to connect savings of the household sector to the business sector 

and allocate investment funds to the manufacturing sector, (2) Financing the spending and investment needs of the economy, 

(3) At the same time, the system Financing helps to share the risk of investments between the household sector and businesses. 

Most generally, the national financial system is defined as the part that allocates financial resources in the modern economy 

[1]. 

Typically, the structure of a financial system consists of two basic parts: 

Capital dens: A source of idle capital and also a place to receive capital to meet spending and investment needs. There are four 

basic capital hubs in the economy, namely: Government sector, household sector, corporate sector and foreign sector. 

Capital conduction department: Is the transmission and coordination system between capital hubs, from the place of excess to 

the place of shortage. Normally, there are two channels of capital transmission: (1) direct channel: helping capital to move 

directly between capital hubs, the part that performs this function is the financial market; (2) indirect channel: performing the 

function of attracting idle capital from capital hubs and conducting search and allocating attracted capital to places in need of 

capital. The department that performs this function is the financial institutions. 

- Capital dens: The part where financial resources are created, and also the place to attract back capital sources, but at different 

levels of scope, including: Corporate finance ; State budget; Residential finance (household finance) and other social 

organizations; External finance. 

 

 



         Journal of Pharmaceutical Negative Results ¦ Volume 13 ¦ Special Issue 1 ¦ 2022 95 

 

 

- Capital conduction department: The capital conduction department in the financial system performs the function of 

transferring capital between capital hubs in the system, including the financial market and intermediary financial institutions 

(institutions). . 

2. Vietnam's economic growth and its effects on the national financial system 

After nearly 30 years of renovation, Vietnam's economy has made comprehensive strides with remarkable achievements, 

bringing positive impacts, contributing to the rapid improvement of all aspects of social life. With efforts in implementing 

reasonable growth models and policies, Vietnam has continuously maintained positive growth for 30 years, with an average 

growth rate of 6.6%; higher than some countries in the region such as Malaysia is 6%, Thailand is 5.3%, South Korea is 6.1%... 

From one of the poorest countries in the world, Vietnam has joined the group of countries with high income. low middle income 

since 2010. Economic growth has helped reduce poverty in Vietnam significantly over the years. According to statistics of the 

World Bank, if in 1993, more than half of the population lived on less than 1.90 USD/day, now, the poverty rate has decreased 

to 3%. The proportion of the population living below the national poverty line (TDI-WB) decreased from nearly 60% in 1993 

to 13.5% in 2014. Although, in the last years of this period, Vietnam's economy also The whole world is being hit hard by the 

economic crisis. 

Besides the undeniable achievements, Vietnam's economic growth over the past time also has many shortcomings. Labor 

productivity in Vietnam is low and slow to improve. In recent years, Vietnam's labor productivity has tended to increase 

significantly, the average productivity growth rate in the period 2001 - 2010 reached about 4.8%/year, but with the current level 

of labor productivity , Vietnam is about 2.6 times worse than China's labor productivity and 4.3 times less than Thailand's. At 

the same time, Vietnam's national competitiveness is still weak. Despite achieving a relatively high growth rate in the past 10 

years, global national competitiveness assessment and ranking reports show that Vietnam's competitiveness has not improved 

much in recent years. recently. 

To obtain achievements in economic growth, the development of the financial system has promoted the role of capital 

circulation in the whole society, contributing to stimulating production and ensuring social security. At the same time, the 

economic growth process with wide-ranging policies and models also profoundly affects the development of Vietnam's financial 

system. Detail: 

a. For capital channels 

Growth models and policies over the past time, with solutions to stimulate investment and spending, play an important role in 

promoting the development of Vietnam's financial system, especially in terms of scale. Therefore, according to the World 

Bank's FSAP report, for a low-middle-income country, Vietnam's financial system is large, with total assets up to 200% of GDP 

in 2011. In which, the The banking sector including the Policy Bank dominates the financial system, with total assets equivalent 

to 183% of GDP and 92% of total assets of financial institutions. Economic growth has had a positive impact on the savings 

rate in the population, causing the total amount of deposits to increase significantly over the years. 

Besides the positive effects, the growth model based on the increase in the amount of capital without paying attention to the 

quality and efficiency of capital use causes overinvestment effects. In the condition that the management of lending activities 

of commercial banks is still loose and the massive inflow of capital into areas not commensurate with production capacity will 

cause instability to the financial system. The main points are reflected in the following points: 

+ Firstly, the capital structure is not properly allocated at credit institutions between short-term and long-term, between lending 

for investment in non-production and investment in production. Besides, credit institutions use short-term mobilized capital to 

finance medium and long-term projects. 

+ Secondly, the bad debt situation in the banking system due to the low quality of capital use, the nascent commercial banking 

system, the weak financial supervision capacity and the lack of an effective supervision model makes the bad debt worse. 

complex developments. 

+ Third, after Vietnam joined the WTO, the attractiveness of emerging markets has attracted capital flows into the Vietnamese 

financial system with undesirable consequences such as: Excessive investment, asset prices virtual increase… risk of financial 

bubble, the economy faces crisis risk. 



Journal of Pharmaceutical Negative Results ¦ Volume 13 ¦ Special Issue 6 ¦ 2022 96 

 

 

+ Fourth, the effectiveness of financial supervision still has many shortcomings. In particular, the tools for modern financial 

supervision in our country have not been used and the current tools are outdated… Quantitative models are almost not applied 

for supervision. 

b. For capital dens 

* State budget sector 

Along with the economic growth model and policies, especially the goal of ensuring the effectiveness of fiscal policy, the public 

financial management policy system continues to be innovated in many aspects. , gradually approach the common standards of 

international practices, including the management of state budget revenues and expenditures as well as issues related to ensuring 

national financial security and safety. Specifically: The budget collection system has been strongly reformed, contributing to 

reasonable mobilization of resources from the regions into the state budget. 

However, Vietnam's economic growth model and policies over the past time have had a significant impact on the state budget. 

The budget deficit has tended to increase sharply since 2013 with a record deficit of $ 1,909.40 billion in 2015. 

* Private financial sector 

Besides the state budget sector, the private financial sector, including businesses and households, has also experienced 

significant development thanks to economic growth policies over the past time. The financial system that connects savings, 

consumption and investments is increasingly diversified, leading to strong growth in corporate and household finance. In 2008 

and 2009, monetary policy and fiscal policy have partly removed the operating difficulties of enterprises. 

In addition, supply-side policies aim to support the manufacturing sector and reduce government intervention such as 

encouraging research and development, enhancing competition and trade, equitizing SOEs, improving improve business 

environment...; In which, the development of the financial system has helped to improve the demand for the flow of savings 

and investment capital. The transparency of the financial system gradually reduces the number of inefficient enterprises, 

including state-owned enterprises. In addition, policies towards financial stability have increased the expectations of households 

as well as investors, thereby increasing consumption and private investment, promoting the development of the financial market. 

The growth model based on quantity, especially the quantity of capital, also has negative consequences for the corporate finance 

sector. The growth model based on increasing the amount of capital and the growth policy based on aggregate demand, led to 

the over-expansion of the number and size of enterprises in the period 2000 - 2006. Capital demand increased plus the resonance 

of the spending multipliers and the money multipliers create a credit boom. 

After the credit boom and bad debt generation, it was the debt withdrawal period. Previously heavily indebted enterprises could 

not borrow more debt, partly because bad debts could not be paid back to banks, and partly because there was no need to expand 

investment in the context of economic decline and demand of enterprises. weakened economy. High inventory makes it difficult 

to rotate capital of enterprises. This is partly causing cash flow congestion, making businesses unable to repay bank loans. 

Creating an imbalance between the growth of deposits and loans in the economy, this causes savings not to be transferred to 

investment but stagnate outside the cycle of the economy. 

* International Financial Sector 

The growth model based on investment capital and the advantage of abundant, cheap labor and raw resources has brought 

Vietnam comparative advantages in the process of international economic integration. Besides, policies to support production 

for businesses, as well as monetary and exchange rate policies, are used quite flexibly, providing opportunities to boost exports 

during the past time, reflected in the growth rate of the economy. growth of import-export turnover tends to be positive. Besides 

the development of foreign trade activities, the capital account liberalization process of Vietnam must be mentioned. In 2006, 

the issuance of the Ordinance on Foreign Exchange and Decree 160/2006/ND-CP marked an important milestone in the capital 

account liberalization process. Accordingly, capital transactions are gradually loosened, especially FDI and FPI inflows. Since 

then, except in 2007, due to the impact of the world financial market crashing due to the economic crisis, FDI inflows dropped 

sharply, remaining in the following years, the amount of FDI poured into Vietnam, although although there were quite erratic 

fluctuations, it still remained at a higher level than the previous period. 



         Journal of Pharmaceutical Negative Results ¦ Volume 13 ¦ Special Issue 1 ¦ 2022 97 

 

 

The capital-based growth model in the context of low domestic accumulation, inevitably leads to the need to attract external 

capital sources for growth, including foreign loans and investments. direct FDI. For external debt, debt volume tends to increase 

continuously throughout the study period. In the total foreign debt balance, the Government debt and the Government 

guaranteed debt (foreign public debt) account for a relatively large proportion (about 85-90% of the total foreign debt in the 

period before 2007). From 2007 until now, the proportion of foreign public debt has tended to decrease but still accounts for 

nearly 70% of the total foreign debt balance. 

For foreign investment flows, although investment attraction policies and capital account liberalization trends in order to exploit 

foreign capital sources have led to a significant increase in FDI inflows in the period from 2006 to 2016. compared with the 

period 2000 - 2005. However, from 2007 to now, FDI movements have fluctuated quite complicatedly with a very large 

fluctuation band. Currently, FDI inflows tend to be procyclical, unsustainable and speculative: when the economy is growing, 

capital flows tend to flow strongly into the country and when the economy is in recession, capital flows out. The reversal trend 

of foreign capital flows not only affects the financial market, but also puts pressure on exchange rate fluctuations, causing 

exchange rate risks, adversely affecting the financial system nation. 

Thus, in addition to the positive effects, the economic growth model over the past time has also put a lot of pressure on the 

Vietnamese financial system, including the capital conduction department and financial pressure on each individual. capital, 

causing financial instability, is the cause leading to the cracks and failures of the financial market in Vietnam, especially from 

2007 until now, after we joined the WTO and was affected of the world economic crisis. Uncertainties in the financial system, 

in turn, will negatively affect growth targets. Therefore, developing a healthy financial system is an important requirement, 

contributing to improving the effectiveness of the Government's macro management, promoting economic growth, and ensuring 

social security. 

In summary, economic growth over the past time has brought remarkable achievements to the development of financial - 

monetary activities in parallel with the development of production - business and consumption activities. The increase in the 

capital factor for growth and growth policies have contributed to building a vibrant Vietnamese financial system - gradually 

approaching the market and world standards, providing back support to the target. economic growth. 

3. Some recommendations 

To achieve the goal of sustainable growth, contributing to the promotion of financial development. At the same time, building 

a strong financial system to support growth can focus on the following policies: 

- Improve the efficiency of using resources for growth: In the coming time, it is necessary to focus on effectively developing 

human resources and promoting technology development. These are two key factors for sustainable growth, esp